This is a diamond, a 580 carat diamond,
and they grew it inside this machine.
Most people think about diamonds for jewelry,
but everybody's missing what's most exciting happening right now. We've built giant machines
that can recreate the inside of the earth to grow diamonds and found brand new ways to make them,
which is now unlocking the hidden potential of what turns out to be an incredible super material.
Diamonds are crazy! They're sending diamonds into space, adding them to massive computers,
and using them to try to solve one of the biggest technological problems we're about to face.
This story is about pushing the limits of material science to benefit all of us. In this video,
we're getting rare access inside a lab where they make diamonds. Oh, it's starting to happen. And
we're shrinking down inside a computer to show you why diamonds are not what you think. "Diamonds."
"Diamonds." "Lab grown diamonds.: "They're not real diamonds." "We're reaching the limit." "We need more
computers." "The future of diamond is very exciting." Excuse me while I just hold a fistful of diamonds.
Oh my god, this is so cool. Look at all these machines.
They're making diamonds in every single one of these.
If you wanted to see where a natural diamond is made, you'd have to drill a hole way deeper than
you think. Most other gemstones, emeralds and sapphires and rubies, form here in the crust.
But diamonds... come from here inside the mantle. This extremely hot, goopy liquid rock is filled
with carbon atoms that are squeezed together over millions of years by pressure 50,000 times what it
is here on the surface, forcing them closer and closer until they form bonds with four of their
neighbors and become... This structure is what makes diamond not just the hardest natural material we
know about, but four times harder than the next hardest material. And it's why we've already been
using diamond for decades to cut and drill and grind and polish because diamond can cut
through basically anything. But wait... that doesn't look like a diamond. When you think of lab grown
diamonds, you probably think of this. This is a single crystal diamond. It's the kind that gets
cut and polished into jewelry. "So that's grown in our chambers and over several weeks of time
that little seed is converted into that big rough and that might end up being two or three carat in
this gem." Excuse me while I just hold a fistful of diamonds. Wow! "Be very careful... see these little
crystals? They're sharp." So one of the things they're telling me is that the edges are very sharp. So I'm going to
blow these little fragments off of my hand so they don't get, you know, embedded in my skin.
So now I've got dangerous diamond detritis on my hands. "Diamonditis." I've got diamonditis.
Thank you! So this is what people might be most familiar with if you know about lab grown
diamonds. This one is a very different thing. What am I holding here? "You're holding a piece
of poly crystallin diamond." Instead of growing one single crystal, they grow millions of tiny diamond
crystallites that bond together. Each diamond being only about the width of a human hair. But
this particular diamond wasn't made for cutting or polishing. It was made for something very
different. A hidden superpower of diamond that most people don't know about. So, I've got this
razor made of stainless steel. Very sharp razor. If you put a razor on an ice cube, you can cut it,
but I'm pushing into it. It's going to take a while. You take diamond, you do the same thing.
Ready? Oh my god. Look at that! That diamond cuts ice like it's butter. And this has nothing to
do with it being super hard. Instead, it has to do with the incredible way that diamond handles ...
heat. The bonds inside a diamond are short and stiff, but the atoms can still vibrate. And when
one atom jostles its neighbor and that one jostles the next, the ripple travels through the crystal,
moving heat. And heat can travel incredibly quickly through diamond. Exactly how fast is
called its thermal conductivity. And if you look at a chart, here are other popular materials used
for their really great thermal conductivity. Now, guess where diamond is? Here! Diamond moves heat
better than almost any other material on Earth. So, that's why this diamond can cut ice like it's
butter, cuz it's stealing heat from my hand. It took all the heat from my hands. They're so cold.
Okay, so diamonds are insanely good at stealing heat. Why does that actually matter to me? It's
time to jump in... into a computer. Hello! So, you know when you're doing something really
intense with your computer and it gets very hot. That's a small example of a much bigger
problem that's holding back basically all of our cutting edge computers today. And that's because
most of what's around me right now is made of silicon. "Silicon." "Silicon." "The Silicon Valley,"
"the backbone of computing." Silicon is what makes up the on/off switches that run basically all
modern computers. Transistors. More transistors, more processing power. And we've been able to make
transistors. Unbelievably small. This is one of the most unbelievable stories about modern
technology. It is just incredible what we've been able to do. Okay, ready? If this is the size of
the first iPod, then this is the size of the first transistor. But today's are so much smaller.
This is the smallest species of ant. It's only 1 millimeter. And this is the size of one
of my favorite animals, the tardigrade. But now it gets crazy. The smallest human cell is
the red blood cell. But we need to keep going. Even smaller than the size of bacteria. This
gets us to the size of the transistor in that first iPod. It's about as big as a flu virus.
This is the size of the transistors in the first Nintendo Wii. But we still need to go smaller.
If we keep going all the way down, this is about how small today's transistors actually are.
This incredible ability to make transistors smaller, has allowed engineers to roughly double the number
that they can fit onto a chip every 2 years. You might have heard of this, this is called Moore's Law.
It's why your pocket-sized phone is over 100 million times faster than the computer that landed
us on the moon. But... we seem to be hitting a wall. If transistors get much smaller, physics tells
us we won't be able to control how they switch anymore. So, instead of packing more transistors
side by side, like cramming more houses into a neighborhood, they've started stacking them,
like multi-story apartments instead of single family homes. But this generates a lot of heat and
nowhere for it to go. And this extra heat is a big problem. All of the better futures that we dream
about, powered by more computing, more people in space, or better cars or better medicines
or cleaner energy, they all rely on finding a way to overcome this heat problem. And now
they think that diamonds might be able to help. "We want more speed. We want more performance,
more functionality. And all of that is exercising a humongous pressure on the electronics." That is
one of the world's leading researchers in using diamond blankets to cool the inside of computers
so that they can run faster and do more using less power. "We are packing things down into smaller and
smaller and the more you compel them to run faster and harder. The more heat you are generating and
that is making things less efficient until it all falls apart." All computers need to get the heat
off the chip as quickly as possible, that's called heat spreading. And find somewhere to dump it, a
heat sink. Inside your computer. When it makes that drrruu noise, what's happening is your chip is generating
heat, and copper on top is trying to get it off the chip and spread it out and send it through copper
pipes and dump it into a bunch of aluminum fins. Until the fan that you're hearing blows across
the fin's large surface area to finally carry the heat out of the computer. This is a small problem
in your computer, but a really big problem in data centers and electric cars and satellites.
But what if we could use an even more thermally conductive material like... "diamonds seems to be the
right material." The idea is to grow diamonds right onto chips like a blanket that helps
steal the heat away much faster. "And what our work showed is that if I wrap it around like a blanket,
you can make those transistors run cooler, hence way more efficient than otherwise it
would be." But you can't do that with natural diamonds. Not just because getting it out of
the ground is so expensive, but because many have trapped pieces of other elements when they formed
that make them worse at moving heat. So, the only way that this could work. The only reason they're
exploring this right now is because we've gotten unbelievably good at growing super pure diamonds.
And how they do it is wild.
So, on my way to the diamond lab, I was researching the first
time that anyone ever grew diamonds. And I found all of these really cool released CIA
documents about it. So, I started writing the next part of the script, but I really
didn't want anyone looking over my shoulder and seeing what I was doing, which is why I'm using
this for privacy. Most companies do this with a plastic filter that you stick on. Basically,
polarized sunglasses, but for your computer. And that works, but it cuts your brightness in half,
and I lose them constantly. But in this device, there's another layer hidden inside the display,
thinner than three human hairs. And when I click this button, extra voltage causes the molecules
in that layer to tilt. So light going straight forward toward me passes through clean. But light
headed sideways to the nosy person right there doesn't. And it's super easy to turn off and
on. I travel a lot on this show. And it makes a really big difference to have features on a
commercial device that work the way that I work. If you want to check it out, go to this link. Now,
let me show you these documents because the first time anyone ever grew a diamond was in
a secret project after World War II. Released CIA documents show that the US needed about 5 million
carats of diamonds a year to grind and drill and cut parts for airplanes and tanks and armor. So,
General Electric's research lab set out to try to make them. They called it Project Super Pressure
because they were using a giant machine, similar to this one, that creates conditions like the inside
of the Earth. It works by taking a super pure carbon powder, adding metal flux, and then heating
it up to over a thousand degrees celsius to create a molten mix like in the mantle. But instead of using the weight of
the Earth, this machine uses powerful arms to squish it together, creating pressure that's
equivalent to placing a commercial airplane on your fingertip. But all that pressure and all that
heat won't make a diamond unless you have this! A tiny little diamond that acts like a seed, giving
the carbon atoms something to grip onto. And this speeds up the growing process from millions of
years to under a week. And they cleverly called this method pressure, high temperature. But today,
they often use a machine like this with an even newer method. And now they're going to let me
grow a diamond. Time to grow a diamond. "It's kind of like baking a cake." First ingredient,
just like the high pressure, high temperature method, we use a diamond seed, telling the
carbon atoms what molecular structure to form. And instead of placing it between giant arms,
you place it on this heat resistant metal puck. And then you stick it into this chamber. I'm going to
click start process. The first thing they do is pump out all of the air from the chamber.
That way they can add in only the ingredients needed to make a pure diamond. First ingredient,
hydrogen gas. That's what's going to help build the crystal. Then they turn the chamber into a
large, powerful microwave. "So, it's 10 times as powerful as a microwave you would have at home."
These microwaves give hydrogen molecules energy, creating a cloud of plasma gas that can break
apart molecules. We're going to see the plasma when it starts in 3,2 1. Cool, i's beautiful!
"It's very cool." Look, there's the plasma. And that's the puck that we put in where the diamonds
are going to grow. Now, final ingredient, you need carbon. And you get it by adding methane gas,
CH4. When the methane gets added, you're going to see it change color. It's going to be really
cool. Oh, it's starting to happen. You can already see it turning green. Oh, yeah. There
it is. The energy in the plasma breaks apart the methane into carbon and hydrogen. And over time,
the carbon atoms deposit onto the seed and the crystal grows. They cleverly call this method
Chemical Vapor Deposition. And if they keep the conditions just right for weeks, you get ... these.
These are the kind of diamonds you can cut up into gems. But to grow this kind, you don't even need a
seed. There she is. A newly grown diamond. These are all diamonds, but they're also basically just
microwaved methane and hydrogen. These lab grown diamonds are even more pure than the ones found
in the Earth, making them better at moving heat. And we can grow them into any shape that we want.
And this process of growing diamond has gotten so fast and so reliable that now experts say "every
chip having a diamond layer is not a sci-fi kind of outlook. Uh I think it's very real. It's very
possible." In fact, there are already data centers using diamond cooled servers right now. "In fact,
the world's first diamond cooled server was an Nvidia H200." And look up because there are
diamond filled satellites in space. "It's helping to shrink the size of satellites. A large portion of
satellites is designed for the electronics and the managing the heat." Diamonds in data centers
in particular could be a big deal if they mean you can get way more with way less. And it does seem
like they can. "This is incredible breakthrough news. This is hot off the press by the way.
We just got this data last week. This recent test that we just did in a data center in San
Francisco actually doubled the amount of compute coming off a GPU." Again, just to be really clear,
this is all a test. It's a big experiment. It's HUGE* If True, right? It implies a future world
with fewer data centers for the same power. "Instead of building two regular data centers,
you can build one." "Today's applications is craving for 2° C reduction in temperature. Some of our
work has shown that we can take it down by 70° C." And beyond more efficient data centers, Diamond
has more hidden superpowers that people are just beginning to scratch the surface of. Get it? Cuz
you can't scrap... Never mind. like its incredible ability to handle extremely high voltages,
which could, in theory, mean really good diamond transistors. Or, its resistance to radiation,
which makes diamond really useful in space and in massive experiments here on Earth.
And even its compatibility with our human bodies, which makes diamond promising as a drug delivery
tool, which are all just HUGE* If True. "I am really really so excited about this." To be really clear,
we don't know *if true yet. It's a really exciting moment for material science. No one knows exactly
what role diamonds will play in our computing future. We're figuring it out right now. That's
what makes this so exciting. It's a big experiment using something that we know for jewelry for
something much, much bigger. Because we figured out how to mimic the inside of our planet to make
something that only nature could make before, using tech that's now gotten so good that we
can explore new ways to use it to benefit humans and the planet that made it in the first place.
If you believe in optimistic science and tech stories, subscribe.